
I took one in my hand and flipped its leaves to show Severnius that I
knew "what" a book was. He was delighted. He asked me, in a language
which he ?"and. I had speedily established between ourselves, if I would
not like to learn the Marsian tongue. I replied that it was what I
wished above all things to do. We set to work at once. His teaching
was very simple and natural, and I quickly mastered several important
principles.

After a little a servant announced some visitors, and Severnius went
out into the hall to receive them. He left the door open, and I saw
that the visitors were the astronomers I had met the night before.
They asked to see me, and Severnius ushered them into the library. I
stood up and "shook hands with each one, as he advanced, and repeated
their own formula for "How do you do!" which quite amused them. I
suppose the words sounded very parrot-like,--I did not know where to
put the accent. They congratulated me with many smiles and
gesticulations on my determination to learn the language,--Severnius
having explained this fact to them. He also told them that I had
perhaps better be left to myself and him until I had mastered it, when
of course I should be much more interesting to them and they to me.
They acquiesced, and with many bows and waves of the hand, withdrew.

The language, I found, was not at all difficult,--not so arbitrary as
many of our modern languages. It was similar in form and construction
to the ancient languages of southern Europe. The proper names had an
almost familiar sound. That of the country I was in was Paleveria. The
city was called Thursia, and there was a river flowing through
it,--one portion of Severnius' grounds, at the back of the house,
sloped to it,--named the Gyro.
